All right.
It's time to do something useful with our selenium driver.
We want to try and grab this input.
Put some text in it.
Then click on Show message.
Just like you we would on our Web site maybe where we're trying to sign in automatically to test the
sign in functionality or to test some sort of a form functionality in our app.
How can we do this.
Well let me clear this first.
Just so we have a clean palette and start with a few things.
The first thing I like to do when working with selenium is to make sure that as we progressed through
the code we're doing things correctly by using these assert commands.
So I can say assert and we want to assert that this button text which we're going to use which is show
message we want to assert that this show message actually exists on our page.
Now an easy way to check this is to say Chrome browser and instead of tidal we want to just check the
page
and page source is simply if I right click here and look at the view page source is simply the HMO version
of the entire Web site that we see which should have the show Message button so by doing this hopefully
if everything works up until like 12:00 we should just get true without any errors.
So let's run that.
All right.
We don't get any errors.
Everything is good.
Now let's move on.
The first thing I want to do is grab this input so I'm going to inspect
where let's close this.
So we have a better view of this and use inspect on the input.
We see that the input over here has it has an I.D. of user message.
So we can grab this with I.D. If you remember and we scroll up to our cheat sheet here
we see that we can grab elements by I.D. using defined element by I.D. method.
So let's do that.
I'm going to say Chrome browser dot find element by I.D. and the I.D. name that I wanted to grab was
the user message.
So let's do that.
I'm going to say user message and the first thing I want to do now that we've grabbed this I.D. is I
want to make sure that there's no text in here maybe from a previous user so usually when grabbing inputs
I'll do something like user message let's create a new variable here called User message and I'm going
to say a user message dot clear to clear wherever is in the input and then from there and let's make
sure this is underscore like this
and then from here we can use the send Quis and send Keys says hey in the user message sent these keystrokes
as if a user is typing and give it the string let's do I am extra cool that's kind of silly but that
should be fine.
So we're going to mimic typing.
I am extra cool into that input after we've cleared it so let's see if this works.
I'm going to run.
Whoa.
How cool is that.
Do you see that.
We just automated typing into a box and it says I am extra cool.
Awesome.
Now the next step is we want to grab this button and then simulate a click on it so that your message
gets displayed on here.
If I click show message you see that I get this printed.
Let's close some of our browsers because I feel like we have a ton of selenium browsers open right now
that's better.
So now that we have this once again we can select the button.
So remember we can select a button just like this but well let's not call a button text and I like being
specific here so let's call this show.
Message button.
Now this show Message button which we've grabbed before the first thing we want to do is to well simulate
a click just like that.
So we sent keys and then we click.
So let's see if that works.
I'm going to say this and run
it looks like that didn't work.
Let me check what happened.
We get a name error button Texas is not defined.
And that's because we did not fix the naming in here in the print function.
So let's just change the name here we can actually just comment this out because we don't need it printed
anymore.
And let's run it again
word.
You see that also did you notice how fast that happened.
I am extra cool.
He got clicks your message and now my message appears very very cool.
Let's say that we wanted to grab this information.
What can we do.
Well once again we can right click.
So let's use our default let's right click inspect and you can guess by now that this is starting to
get easy.
We see that we have the I.D. of display.
So we're going to grab that and say this is going to be the output message and the output message will
be the Chrome browser dot find element by I.D. and give it the display and maybe now to verify that
this is working.
I'm going to do an ASR method and say hey I want to assert that the I am extra cool.
How many o's OSes that for us looks right is in the output message.
And while we want to do is to actually see the text so we can actually say the inner HMO like we've
done here with get attribute or we can just say text so if I run this
no airs everything is working.
Now this is a simple example but did you notice how fast everything happened.
I mean if a human was to do this you'd have to select here and type this and then you have to click
show message and then your message finally gets to this point.
The reason testing automation is such an important part of software development is that you can do things
really really fast.
You let the machine control the browser extremely fast so you can test as many times as you want.
Millions of times you can similarly clicks you can enter information just anything that a human to do
selenium lets you use as well now want to show you one other way to select.
That is very very common.
We've seen that we can do find element by I.D. find element by class name but another very useful one
is something called Chrome browser dot find element instead of class name we use something called CSX
and CSX selector.
We're not going to learn CSX here but CSX in a browser is the styling that you get.
So for example if I was to look at the button and I do inspect you see that the class has button button
default and in a class this is what we call CSX.
This tells it hey these are the styles that we want.
You can see over here in the styles tab that we have button default and button and this controls our
styles on a web page.
For example if I uncheck this my button well now has no styling.
If I uncheck some of this as well.
Again the button styling goes away so we're actually able to use CSX selectors again something that
you can Google on your own or I teach my other courses to actually grab this.
So the way we would do something like this and grab.
Button button default is to use the let's say CSX class dot button and this is a CSX selector.
For example if I wanted to grab all buttons that are under the form get input which is I.D. get input
then I would do pound which stands for I.D. get input
and then say all forms that have the I.D. get input and anything that is a child button.
I want you to grab so that if I do user message or user button I'll say two here if I print this out
now and say a user born to this should have been selected not select let's fix that.
You see that I'm able to grab this element that way as well.
All right.
Let's take a break because check out all the windows that I just opened up.
This is getting a little insane so in the next video I'm going to show you how to close all of these.
I'll see in the next one about.